###Something's Wrong!
Indications that something is not right
* _message_: A generic notification/diagnostic message produced by the _message_ function;
	execution of the function continues
* _warning_: An indication that something is wrong but not necessarily fatal;
	execution of the function continues; generated by the _warning_ function
* _error_: An indication that a fatal problem has occurred; execution stops;
	produced by the _stop_ function
* _condition_: A generic concept for indicating that something unexpected can occur;
	programmers can create their own conditions

If you want people help you with your problem, you should list out detailed information 
about your problem.
Here is list of questions you should answer while describing your problem.
* What was your input? How did you call the function?
* What were you expecting? Output, messages, other results?
* What did you get?
* How does what you get differ from what you were expecting?
* Were your expectations correct in the first place?
* Can you reproduce the problem (exactly)?

##Debugging Tools in R
The primary tools for debugging functions in R are
* _traceback_: prints out the function call stack after an error occurs;
	does nothing if there is no error
* _debug_: flags a function for "debug" mode which allows you to step through execution
	 of a function one line at a time
* _browser_: suspends the execution of a function wherever it is called and puts the function
	 in debug mode
* _trace_: allows you to insert debugging code into a function a specific places
* _recover_: allows you to modify the error behavior so that you can browse the function call stack

There are interactive tools specifically designed to allow you to pick through a function. There's
 also the more blunt technique of inserting print/cat statements in the function.

##traceback
> mean(x)

Error in mean(x) : object 'x' not found

> traceback()

1: mean(x)

> lm(y ~ x)

Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos) : object ’y’ not found

> traceback()

7: eval(expr, envir, enclos)
6: eval(predvars, data, env)
5: model.frame.default(formula = y ~ x, drop.unused.levels = TRUE)
4: model.frame(formula = y ~ x, drop.unused.levels = TRUE)
3: eval(expr, envir, enclos)
2: eval(mf, parent.frame())
1: lm(y ~ x)

##debug
> debug(lm)

> lm(y ~ x)

debugging in: lm(y ~ x)
debug: {
 ret.x <- x
 ret.y <- y
 cl <- match.call()
 ...
 if (!qr)
 z$qr <- NULL
 z
} 

Browse[2]> n

debug: ret.x <- x

Browse[2]> n

debug: ret.y <- y

Browse[2]> n

debug: cl <- match.call()

Browse[2]> n

debug: mf <- match.call(expand.dots = FALSE)

Browse[2]> n

debug: m <- match(c("formula", "data", "subset", "weights", "na.action",
 "offset"), names(mf), 0L)

##recover
> options(error = recover)

> read.csv("nosuchfile")

Error in file(file, "rt") : cannot open the connection
In addition: Warning message:
In file(file, "rt") :
 cannot open file ’nosuchfile’: No such file or directory
Enter a frame number, or 0 to exit
1: read.csv("nosuchfile")
2: read.table(file = file, header = header, sep = sep, quote = quote, dec =
3: file(file, "rt")
Selection:


