#Get_and_Clean

##Contains the final project for Get and Cleaning course

####In this repository there are 3 files that were required in this project:

README.md           (with the instruction and description for running run_analisys.R)<br> 
CODE_BOOK.pdf       (with the variables description of file that is generated by run_analisys.R)<br> 
run_analysis.R      (R Program that takes data collected from the accelerometers and produces a table with some means)<br> 

####IMPORTANT

Before running the R program you should unzip next file in your working directory:<br>
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip<br>
This will create a directory file "/UCI HAR Dataset" where you will find these files:<br>
<ol>
<li>features.txt. (The names of column)</li> 
<li>activity_labels.txt. (The numbers and activity names)</li>
<li>test/subject.txt. (The number of subjects that took the test)</li>
<li>test/X_test.txt. (The information that was collected or generated from accelerometers)</li>
<li>test/y_test.txt. (The number of activities that the subject did on the test)</li>
<li>train/subject.txt. (The number of subjects that took the train)</li>
<li>train/X_train.txt. (The information that was collected or generated from accelerometers)</li>
<li>train/y_train.txt. (The number of activities that the subjects did in the train)</li>
</ol>
####DESCRIPTION OF FUNCTION run_analysis()
####Please pay atention in step 6
<ol>
<li>Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set. With cbind() function I added all the activities and subjects to identificate the observations and then I merged the files with rbind() function. Once I read the "X_var.txt" files I especified that the col.names were in the second column of the file "features.txt" previusly read. </li>
<li>Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. With only_select_col() function I selectected the names of columns that were contained “mean” or “std" string, but I excluded the variables with "angle" because this is not a properly mean.</li>
<li>Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. I replaced the number of activities for the label activity in "activity_labels.txt", using the mutate() function.</li>
<li>Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. I fixed the column names with sub() function because the string "(",")","-" was transformed in "."</li>
<li>From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. I used dplyr function group_by() and summarise_each() to obtain the final tidy_data</li>
<li>Finally the function return the data.frame with averages solicited on the previous step and creates the table "get&clean.txt" with the parameters row.name=FALSE. </li>
</ol>

